what would you do if a building you were
in collapsed
and you ended up under piles of debris
in rubble
a light a fire b calm down and cover
your whole head with a piece of cloth
c move fast trying to get out from under
the rubble
you have only five seconds to choose the
right answer
[Music]
if you've picked b you're absolutely
right
being trapped don't panic take off your
shirt and tie it around your whole head
it'll prevent you from choking on dust
if you're outside with no shelter in
sight and you see a rapidly approaching
tornado
do you a climb a hill or some other
elevation
b run away lightning fast c
lie down in a ditch and make yourself as
flat as you can
the only correct answer is c if a
tornado is moving towards you
and you realize you don't have time or a
place to escape to
find a ditch or some low place lie down
and cover your head with your hands or
clothes
what would you do if you were indoors
when an earthquake started
hey been there done that but that's for
another video sometime
would you a rush outside and move away
from the buildings
b hide under a sturdy piece of furniture
c run up to the window to see what's
happening
the only way to save your life is to
hide in a safe spot
which is answer b stay away from glass
or
anything that might fall on you
if you fell through the ice into the
water on a freezing winter day
you would a take off your clothes
b try to break the ice and get out to
the shore
c get out of the water from where you
fell in and
roll across the ice toward the shore
[Music]
the correct answer is c grab onto the
edge of the ice and use your elbows and
forearms to lift yourself
up then kick your legs to propel
yourself onto the ice
and roll towards the shore like seals do
if you're falling from a cliff do your
best to break your way down to several
parts
the shorter the better each of the
segments will absorb some
impact of the fall and you'll have much
higher chances of surviving
try to grab onto a sturdy object like a
bush or a rock
on your way to the bottom to slow down
your movement
a piece of wood or a plank can also be
useful it might help you to soften your
fall when you hit the ground
if your pan has caught fire don't take
it outside or try to put the fire out
with water
it'll worsen the situation cover the
flames with a metal lid
this way you'll take away the source of
oxygen your movement should be fast
but smooth and calm remember to keep the
lid between yourself and the flames
leave it on until the pan has cooled if
a fire is tiny and manageable
you can use salt or baking soda to put
it out
by the way using baking powder flour and
other cooking powders that look like
salt or baking soda is a big no-no
they won't help you because their
chemical makeup is different
if you find yourself in a panic stricken
crowd
your main task is to create some space
around yourself
to do it keep your hands by your chest
your arms bent at the elbow
boxers often use this position to
protect their vital organs don't cross
the crowd's path
move together with it slowly drifting
toward one of its sides
be careful not to block anyone's way
because in this case
you can be pushed to the ground if
you're with your family
put the kid on your shoulders and let
the weaker members of the family go in
front of you
this way you'll be able to control the
movement and won't lose anyone
if someone's attacking you from behind
on the street stomp on their foot
do it with all the strength you have and
aim for the top of the foot
it can damage and even break several
foot bones which will make it difficult
for the attacker to follow you
now if you get locked in a car truck try
to send an sos signal to people outside
to do it look for the tail lights wires
there are usually at least two of them
for each light
find something sharp in the trunk and
cut one of those wires
when you connect the ends again the
lights will flash
if your car brakes suddenly stop
responding ask the passengers if you
have any
to make sure their seat belts are
buckled then turn on the emergency
lights
inform other drivers you're having an
emergency by using your car horn and
long range lights
with strong and abrupt moves press the
brake pedal
that's how you can create pressure in
the braking system after that
downshift carefully and put the gear
shift into the l
position if your car has a mechanical
gearbox
press the clutch pedal after that use
manual brakes but do it
very slowly a sudden movement and your
car will begin to drift
to slow your car down you can also try
to turn left and right
going from one row to another all right
houdini
i hope you'll never find it useful but
it's always good to know your way out
use any kind of wire-like material even
paperclips or hairpins will do the job
put the end of the wire into the keyhole
and bend it at a right angle
then pull it out a bit and bend it in
the other direction
then stick it into the very edge of the
keyhole
following all the bends move it around a
bit and it will eventually
open the lock trust me how do i know
this
that's a good question assuming you
don't have anything sharp around
and can't use your teeth you can still
free yourself
using only your shoelaces untie your
shoes
and make a loop with laces around your
left foot
then pull a shoelace around the rope and
tie the end of it to your right foot
move your legs as if you were riding a
bicycle this way the shoelace will
eventually cut the rope with friction
and you'll break free we won't ask how
you got that way in the first place
if you spotted a shark in the water it
doesn't mean it's going to attack
if it passes by in the distance in a
straight line you have
all the chances to get calmly away to
the beach
just don't start to panic and move
steadily if the shark is going your way
in zigzags
then you know you're in trouble but you
can fight back
the weakest spots on the shark's head
are gills and eyes
most sharks won't try to fight you
they'll just swim away
hmm that really bites first of all have
some clothes on
no wait that's a different spelling of
bear never mind
let's talk about the animal kind of bear
first
don't provoke the bear they naturally
don't see humans as their prey
if they aren't starving after a long
winter's nap if you run
you're telling them that you are food
move slowly and
always leave an escape route for the
bear try to make yourself look bigger
than you are
spread your coat wide stand on your
tiptoes but don't be aggressive
just make the bear think that it's
better for it to go mind its own
business
if you're calling an emergency service
first of all give them your address
only after that should you explain the
reason for your call
in this case even if something or
somebody forces you to end the
conversation
the operator will already know where to
send help
if you get disoriented after diving and
can't figure out which way you should
swim to get back to the surface
exhale the bubbles will start to rise
and all you have to do is to follow them
any scratch or bite received from a wild
animal can lead to rabies
within 10 to 15 minutes after the
accident you should thoroughly wash the
wound and rush to a hospital
every next hour lowers your chances of
survival
if you're crossing the road and see a
bright sun reflection on the windshield
of an oncoming car
chances are the driver won't see you let
them pass
even if according to the road rules you
have the right-of-way
always plug your nose when you jump into
a lake or a pond from high up
feet first the water could be swirming
with dangerous one-celled animals
and the most horrifying among them is
something known as the brain
eating amoeba if you don't plug your
nose this amoeba can get into your nasal
cavity with a powerful stream of water
from there it can reach your brain and
as you may guess from its name
this won't end well on the other hand if
you simply swallow this one celled
organism
it won't harm you whatsoever
if you've heard about an approaching
tsunami when you're on a boat or a ship
at sea
try to move to deep water as fast as you
can
the safest depth is 150 feet or more
the thing is that in the open sea
tsunami waves can reach a staggering
length of hundreds of miles
but they're usually no more than several
feet high
on the other hand far from the shore
such waves
usually travel at a breakneck speed of
up to 500 miles per hour
but when a wave is getting closer to the
coast it slows down to 30 miles per hour
and grows in height if you're a surfer
and a tsunami is nearing paddle towards
the shore
and run toward the highest place you can
you might still have
several precious minutes until the
tsunami hits the beach
if the tsunami is drawing nearer while
you're far from the shore
paddle towards the horizon to the deep
sea
there you might not feel the devastating
effects of the tsunami waves that much
plus you'll have a flotation device also
in the open sea you won't have to worry
about being hit by debris
finally if you've managed to paddle away
from the shore and are out of danger for
the time being
don't hurry to return back to the beach
wait for at least a couple of hours
tsunamis tend to last for a while a
tsunami's waves can travel at a speed of
20 to 30 miles per hour
and reach a height of 10 to 100 feet
they can search up to 10 miles inland
and cause catastrophic flooding which
damages
all kinds of transportation and
communication and destroys the fresh
water supply
about eighty percent of all the tsunamis
are born in the pacific ocean's ring of
fire
which is a seismically active zone with
452 volcanoes
and the world's largest number of
earthquakes
coyotes are rather reclusive animals
that don't enjoy or seek the company of
humans
they wouldn't move closer to us by
choice but as
cities are growing and pushing into what
used to be wild areas
people are the ones moving closer to
coyotes
now these canines aren't as afraid of
humans as they used to be
and feel safe roaming around backyards
even with the homeowners nearby
they've already realized there's food in
human neighborhoods
and they don't mind helping themselves
to it it could be something out of the
trash
the garden or worst-case scenario your
pets
if there's just one coyote watching you
it may be doing this out of curiosity
however if you have a dog that's smaller
than the coyote
who knows what might be going through
this invader's mind
bijon stick my favorite
a pack of coyotes which is fortunately a
rarity in cities or suburbs
is a whole other ball game though when
there's a group of them
what do they have to fear luckily cases
of coyotes attacking dogs
are very uncommon but still it's every
pet owner's responsibility to keep their
furry friend
out of harm's way so here's how to
protect your dog from coyotes
don't leave your dog unattended if you
live in a high risk area
always keep an eye on your pooch even
when it's playing in your own backyard
genetically dogs and coyotes have a lot
in common
so they're naturally attracted to each
other that means it's not always the
coyote chasing the dog
it can be vice versa if your pet spots a
coyote across the fence
it might decide to beeline straight for
this unfamiliar visitor
when you're going for a walk with your
dog keep it on a leash
a non-retractable kind is your best bet
because you'll be able to control your
pet
and keep it close in case of a
rendezvous
those wild hunters are still mostly
afraid of humans
so your close presence will serve as a
protective shield
if you have a little dog it's even
better if you pick it up when things get
dangerous
plan your walking route wisely one of
the best things you can do to avoid
running into a coyote
is avoiding areas that are known to have
plenty of them
coyotes don't like bright light so
walking on a well-lit street or path
is a good idea if that's not an option
take a flashlight with you and create
your own source of bright light
be more careful at certain times of the
day and year
baby coyotes are born in spring so their
parents get way more protective
and thus dangerous from april to august
that's when they're on high alert to
keep their cubs out of danger
even if that danger is just your goofy
beagle running up to try and make a new
friend
as for the time of day they're most
active at night
by nature they like to get around during
the day but urban life has changed
coyotes they've adapted to sniff around
when the sun's not
out in hopes of not getting spotted by
humans that's why you should keep an
extra eye on your pet if you prefer to
walk it just after sunset
don't feed wildlife the main thing that
brings coyotes to areas filled with
humans
is the search for food so don't be
surprised by a visit if you leave
something tasty out for them
and if they get it once they'll come
back for more
for the same reason don't feed any of
your pets outside
any leftovers become a source of risk
even bird seed can cause you trouble
because rodents come after it and
they're an easy catch for coyotes if you
encounter a gator wall-e or not on dry
land
the first step is to run probably don't
need a reminder on that
one standard piece of advice is to run
zigzags to keep the beast from reaching
full speed
but some experts say that isn't
necessary alligators are surprisingly
fast
capable of breaking 25 miles per hour in
a sprint
but don't have very much in the way of
endurance
even if it looks like one is gaining on
you they'll usually get tired and give
up quickly
that's assuming it even bothers to chase
you down in the first place
alligators are ambush predators that
prefer surprise attacks from underwater
to lengthy overland chases they're most
dangerous in the water
and are much more effective at drowning
their prey than taking them down with
tooth and claw
prey fleeing over the land will be hard
for them to catch and difficult to
overcome so
most don't even bother anything an
alligator doesn't catch in the first
lunge is probably a lost cause
at that point most gators will slink off
back to their hiding spot
and wait for something else to come
along
really they're a good deal lazier than
they are intimidating
but what if one manages to catch you by
surprise
let's say you're fishing on the edge of
a lake and don't realize that drifting
log is 600 pounds of scales and teeth
an american alligator can slam its jaws
shut
with almost 3 000 pounds of force
triple that of a lion or tiger
the best way to deal with an alligator
is to run
but that isn't an option once one has
clamped itself to your leg
at this point your only option is to
fight back with all your strength
attacks like this are very rare but
those who fall prey to them can be
seriously injured
or even lose their life your one
advantage is that you want to live more
than the gator wants to eat you
the more you struggle and the harder you
resist the less appetizing you become